h1. eXo CS 1.2 Release Notes






h2. Notable changes

* Simplifier contacts API for developing users
* Update fully to portal 2.5
* Better when select-user with UISelectUser component from portal 2.5
* Faster fetching mail job
* Smarter get attachment when checking attach corrupted
* Faster when jumping on message list
* Easier to use calendar with adding more tool-tip
* Support "Select all" in select address book component in mail, and calendar
* Fix flickering ui when modify or add new event/task
* Fix cannot print mail, contact detail in IE7



h2. API Changes

h3. ContactService API

The API used by AddressBook application has been mostly rewritten. The main motivation is to remove the SessionProvider  to decouple the API from JCR. Some domain objects and semantics have been refined to be more aligned with the concepts outlined by the AddressBook application.

All deprecated methods above have been moved to ContactServiceLegacy interface but are still available in ContactService for compatibility.



h3. CalendarService API

The API used by Calendar application has been mostly rewritten. The main motivation is to remove the SessionProvider  to decouple the API from JCR.

h3. MailService API
h2. Dependencies Changes
 * portal 2.5
 * kernel 2.0.5
 * core 2.1.3
 * ws 1.3.1
 * jcr 1.10.1
 * pc 2.0.4



h2. How to upgrade
 If you need to know how to update the version [visit here|http://wiki.exoplatform.org/xwiki/bin/view/CS/Upgrade+Instructions]




h2. System Requirements
* Web Browser: IE6, IE7, FF2, FF3 (recommanded), Safari.
* JVM: version 1.5.0_xx only
* Application Server : Tomcat
* Building Tools: Maven 2.0.6 and up


h2. Other resources and links
* [Community JIRA|http://jira.exoplatform.org/browse/CS]
* [Subversion|http://svn.exoplatform.org/projects/cs/tags/1.2]
* [Download|http://download.forge.objectweb.org/exoplatform/]
* [Live demo|http://cs.demo.exoplatform.org]
* [Announces|http://blog.exoplatform.org/tags/cs/]
* [Company site|http://www.exoplatform.com]










h2. Detailed Changelog cs 1.2

{code:xml}
** Bug
    * [CS-2334] - Small typo in home page (at least on cd demo site)
    * [CS-2393] - Message list is not updated in special case
    * [CS-2399] - after sending a message , can't know who is at BCC field
    * [CS-2403] - lost the path of uploaded file when click on Import to new calendar Icon or  import to the existing calendar Icon at the Import calendar form
    * [CS-2407] - UI error when have many address mail in participants to invite field  when view invitation mail
    * [CS-2487] - event time: rework the minute treatment
    * [CS-2489] - Event Schedule: Status of participants is always empty
    * [CS-2493] - Unknow error when execute function when standing at last page (page number > 1)
    * [CS-2499] - Can't delete calendar which belong to calendar group in case the calendar has event(s)


** Doc
    * [CS-2400] - Apply wiki homepage guidelines
    * [CS-2406] - Add wiki about the org.exoplatform.mail.service.AuthenticationLogoutListener plugin
    * [CS-2423] - Integration HOW TO
    * [CS-2424] - Install Guide


** Improvement
    * [CS-293] - Do not display image in Preview an Event/Task when click ''Download'' button
    * [CS-521] - Warning on empty subject email
    * [CS-784] - Conversation column in List View
    * [CS-1267] - Show All addressbooks option
    * [CS-1385] - Calendar is checked again after reload browser although unchecked
    * [CS-1421] - Tooltips on minicalendar

** Task

    * [CS-2405] - Remove duplicate class SelectOptionGroup, SelectItem,SelectOption (on Contact porlet) and use it form portal
    * [CS-2418] - Backport menu from 1.1
    * [CS-2442] - Change bundle keys to be compliant with xml format
{code}

