h1. Mail in other CS Modules



h1. Overview

eXo Mail can be used in other CS applications for integration.


h1. Integration

*Integrated mail service in calendar application*

By default when users create an event, they can use their account to send invitation to other user, but if we not make default email account for user and the user does not create any account, server will use default configuration email account  for sending event invitation, it will be used mail service form kernel. Then we need add to {{cs-plugins-configuration.xml}} file:

{code:xml}
<component>
		<key>org.exoplatform.services.mail.MailService</key>
		<type>org.exoplatform.services.mail.impl.MailServiceImpl</type>
			<init-params>
				<properties-param>
					<name>config</name>
					<property name="mail.smtp.auth.username" value="%username%" />
					<property name="mail.smtp.auth.password" value="%password%" />
					<property name="mail.smtp.host" value="smtp.gmail.com" />
					<property name="mail.smtp.port" value="465" />
		 			<property name="mail.smtp.starttls.enable" value="true" />
					<property name="mail.smtp.auth" value="true" />
					<property name="mail.smtp.debug" value="false" />
					<property name="mail.smtp.socketFactory.port" value="465" />
					<property name="mail.smtp.socketFactory.class" value="javax.net.ssl.SSLSocketFactory" />
					<property name="mail.smtp.socketFactory.fallback" value="false" />
				</properties-param>
			</init-params>
	</component>
{code}

{info}
Some value will be defined by mail server provider, so you need to check the provider configuration before putting any value
{info}


h1. Mail Sending

*Using mail service to send mail from contact application*

As the same way system processed in calendar application to send email form one contact to other contact, it will use the default account of the user to send mail. If having no default and no created account, the system will use the mail service in kernel to send mail. The configuration use for both calendar and contact application.
