
h1. Installation
{include:document="Install_Guide.wiki"}

h1. Configuration
{include:document="CS_General_Configuration.wiki"}

h2. Calendar
{include:document="Default_Calendar_Configuration.wiki"}
{include:document="Email_Reminder_Plugin_Configuration.wiki"}
{include:document="WebDav_CalDav_Access_Configuration.wiki"}

h2. AdressBook
{include:document="Default_Address_Book_Configuration.wiki"}

h2. Mail
{include:document="Default_Mail_Account_Configuration.wiki"}
{include:document="Mail_in_other_CS_Modules.wiki"}
{include:document="Authentication_Logout_Listener.wiki"}
_
h2. Chat
{include:document="Chat_Configuration.wiki"}

h2. Content
{include:document="RSS_Configuration.wiki"}

h1. Integration
{include:document="CS_Integration_into_an_Existing_Portal.wiki"}

h1. Migration
{include:document="CS_Migration_from_1-0_to_1-2.wiki"}
{include:document="CS_Migration_from_1-2_to_1-3.wiki"}
{include:document="CS_Migration_from_1-3_to_2-0.wiki"}
{include:document="Data_migration_plugin.wiki"}

h1. Development

h2. Calendar
{include:document="Calendar_JCR_Structure.wiki"}

h2. AddressBook
{include:document="AddressBook_JCR_Structure.wiki"}
{include:document="AddressBook_show-hidden_group_for_function_send_mail_to_group_user.wiki"}

h2. Mail
{include:document="Mail_JCR_Structure.wiki"}
{include:document="IMAP_Support.wiki"}
{include:document="Portlet_Integration_of_eXo_Mail_API.wiki"}

h2. Chat
{include:document="Chat_JCR_Structure.wiki"}
{include:document="Portlet_Integration_of_eXo_Chat_API.wiki"}
{include:document="How_a_chat_session_works_and_maintained.wiki"}

h2. RSS
{include:document="RSS_JCR_Structure.wiki"}
{include:document="Portlet_Integration_of_eXo_Content_API.wiki"}

h2. Services Inventory

See ProductsTechOverview:Components_Registry#CS


h1. Dependencies
{include:document="Dependencies.wiki"}


h1. Trash

Documentation imported from wiki.exoplatform.org not referenced in original CS Manual.

{include:document="Integration_HOW_TO.wiki"}
{include:document="Add_Event.wiki"}
{include:document="CS_Configuration_Migration_from_1-0_to_1-2.wiki"}
{include:document="CS_Videos.wiki"}
{include:document="Basic_User_Guide.wiki"}
{include:document="ContactService_Configuration.wiki"}

