h1. CS Features

This page intends to give you an overview of CS features. You can see them in action at [CS Live Demo|http://cs.demo.exoplatform.org].

{note}
The information of this page needs to be updated to match latest version
{note}



h2. Calendar

* Unlimited calendars
* Public / private calendars
* Free / busy options
* Sharing calendar (with all, users, groups)
* Multi-view : day, week, month
* Step configuration for views (ex : 5 min to 1 hour for day view)
* Mini calendar to ease navigation
* ical import /export
* Outlook synchronization
* Multi-calendars view
* Printout view
* Events categorization
* Slot locking
* Meeting invitations
* RSS support
* Task list management

{quote}
# Tasks tracking by setting their status as Pending, Completed or Cancelled
# Priorities
# Tasks reminders
# Task delegation / reassignation
# Task report
# Multiple views
# Attachments

{quote}

* Email notification
* Event reminder
* Advanced search
* Pre-defined event templates
* Automatic free time-slot finding between few users
* User profile

{quote}
# Default parameters
# Display configuration
# Date / hour format

{quote}

h2. Mail

* Multiple accounts
* Unlimited folders
* auto completion of email addresses
* Multiple attachments
* Rich text editor
* Pop3, imap4, LDAP, smtp support
* RSS support
* Mailbox size limitation
* Attachment size controlled during send
* Spell check (using an open source tool and dictionary files). If possible, in AJAX live :-).
* Export / Import messages
* Create an event in the calendar from a mail ? This means that the content of the mail would be visible from the event.
* Auto save of mails when editing to avoid session timeouts !
* Overview of attachments (thumbnails) flying over an attachment with the mouse
* Printing support
* Group threads of mails (conversations) together (like gmail)
* Set a high priority status to sent mails
* Possibility to "star" a mail (like gmail) so that the user can notice them in the inbox and know he remind he has something to do.

h2. AdressBook

* Unlimited contacts
* Import / export (VCF, LDIF, CSV)
* Notes
* Categories
* Attachments
* Email lists
* Public / private contacts
* Unlimited address books
* Address book sharing
* Address book for a group


